>> Jafar Husain: So
lets go back to our from event.
So we're going to wait from now on before
we do any work inside an observable,
we are going to wait until
subscribe is called.
So help me out here, what am I going to do
when subscribe is called in order to get
the events out of the dom
event into the observer.
Remember we're pushing events that we get
from the dom event into the observer.
>> Speaker 2: Attached
to the event handler?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, so
we've got a dom element.
We're gonna do addEventListener.
We're gonna pass in the eventName.
And now help me out, well,
how does that event listener work again?
>> Speaker 2: It's gonna
call observer.next.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
it accepts a function right, and
I'm gonna call observer next, and
I'm gonna get an event object, and I'm
gonna pump it into the observer, right?
>> Speaker 2: For conciseness
can you just pass observer.next?
>> Jafar Husain: You could, it wouldn't be
as concise as you hope though because of
the way JavaScript Function binding works,
right?
So if we do this, can anybody tell me why
this isn't gonna work the way we expect or
want it to?
>> Speaker 2: Because of this?
>> Jafar Husain: There's a gotcha,
cuz of the this object.
Functions, right?
In JavaScript, don't necessarily run,
they're this object does not necessarily
the function the object is hanging off of.
Here we're actually literally is you're
going to pass the function reference
through, and it's going to call it.
So we need to do something like this and
we need to make sure to bind it.
And frankly that's not so concise anyways.
So I generally prefer, rather than
using bind, the explicitness of this.
Does that make sense?
So okay, am I done?
What's missing here?
>> Speaker 2: Cancel?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, right.
We've hooked the thing up.
But if somebody wants to unsubscribe from
this event they're out of luck, right?
So how do I do it?
I return a subscription.
Now subscription much like an observable,
is just a function in object clothing.
So it has, it's just a function,
it's just an object with one function.
And so what am I going to do
when somebody unsubscribes?
>> Speaker 2: Remove the event listener.
>> Jafar Husain: Remove
the event listener.
>> Jafar Husain: Ran into a problem here.
>> Speaker 2: Same function at that point?
>> Jafar Husain: What?
>> Speaker 2: Can you
actually remove that event listener
with being a different function?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
how's that gonna work?
That's not gonna work so
well for me, right?
>> Speaker 2: Tie that function
to a function on the object.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay that's interesting.
So you what are you suggesting here,
take this?
>> Speaker 2: Observable
can have the call back, and
you can unsubscribe from that call back.
>> Jafar Husain: So like you're-
>> Speaker 2: Call
back just fires the observer.next.
>> Jafar Husain: So
like if I go this.callbackequals?
Is that the type of
thing you're getting at?
>> Speaker 2: I think so.
>> Jafar Husain: You know what,
I think that would totally work.
But one thing I don't want to do though,
so
I think it would work for
one subscription.
And then the subsequent
subscriptions would all try and
stomp on the same member
on the observable.
So in general, we don't wanna
store members on the observable.
That's a really good guess.
And why don't we wanna store
members on an observable?
Well, because you know what,
that observable's just a wrapper for
a function.
And if we put data on it, and
I call subscribe 50 times,
all 50 of those functions are gonna be
trying to write to the same piece of data.
The good news is,
we don't need to do that,
because in JavaScript we have closures.
So I can just create a variable up here.
>> Jafar Husain: So let's think about,
if I call subscribe 50 times,
how many of these
variables am I gonna get?
>> Speaker 2: 50.
>> Jafar Husain: 50, right?
But if I did this dot handler,
right, I'd have one observable and
50 functions all trying to muck with it.
So in this world, we can use closures for
pretty much everything we wanna do.
And that makes sense,
because I've been telling you guys
that observable is just the wrapper.
Just an object that
wraps around a function.
So from now on, let's think functionally.
If we need state,
we can use a closure and a variable and
just put the state right in there.
Turns out it's actually more
convenient anyways most of the time.
So does this make sense?
Is this going to work?
>> Jafar Husain: Is there anything broken?
>> Speaker 2: We need to complete?
Call complete.
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
Now does this observable complete?
>> Speaker 2: On unsubscribe?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
This is exactly the type of thing
that I want to bring up here.
Is there a difference
between you unsubscribing and
an observable completing?
Are those two things the same thing?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, if you get up and
walk out of the room right
now in the middle of my lecture,
right, is my lecture done?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Jafar Husain: No, you're just not
listening anymore, right, and
that's totally your prerogative.
But the reality is the lecture goes on,
you've just decided to stop listening.
Now, if you were the last person in
the room and got up, I might decide well,
there's no point in me standing here and
doing this lecture.
And later on we'll figure out how
to build an observable such that
if nobody is listening anymore,
it actually stops.
But the main thing I wanna talk
about here is the difference
between an observable completing and
you not listening anymore.
Right?
When you unsubscribe,
it doesn't mean that that
observable completes.
So if you unsubscribe you're not gonna
get [NOISE] complete being called, right?
You're just saying, hey,
I don't care about this anymore.
Doesn't mean the lecture was finished.
Does that make sense?
Now, again, if you're the only person in
the room, right, I think I see a question.
Sorry.
>> Speaker 2: We had someone wanted you to
explain closure real quick.
>> Jafar Husain: Closure, yeah.
A closure is a function that closes over a
variable defined outside of that function.
So, here we have, you know what?
Sorry, this is a bad example.
Well, it's a slightly, yeah,
it's kind of a bad example.
No, it's a good example because here the
variable being closed over inside of this
function is what?
>> Speaker 2: Observer.
>> Jafar Husain: Observer, the reason why
this is a closure, is that we're using
a variable inside of the function that
wasn't defined inside of the function.
If I did this,
>> Jafar Husain: I don't have a closure
anymore, it's just a function that defines
a variable, that lives to the lifetime of
that function, and then when the function
ends, variable goes bye bye, all right?
So a closure is an interesting way
of allowing us to kind of keep state
because we can define a function,
close over it by using it in a function.
And then that variable is gonna live for
as long as the function
that closed over it.
So normally when we create a variable
inside of a function, that variable goes
bye bye and the data inside of it goes bye
bye as soon as that function ends, right?
But if we close over it like I have done
here and then I hand this function to
somebody else, as long as there's a
function that's closed over that variable
and someone is holding onto that function,
the data in that variable lives.
And so as you're gonna see,
basically we're gonna
build our observable implementation
today with just a bunch of closures.
And if you've imagined if you were to
visualize an observable in memory,
it'd just be a bunch of functions closing
over data holding on to other functions,
closing over data.
And in the end that's fundamentally
not that simple than a big objectory,
and object oriented programming.
In the end if you'd look at memory,
they look kinda similar.
You just got a bunch of
data stored somewhere.
Except instead of being
stored under this object,
we store it indirectly through closures.
Does that make sense?
Hopefully that answered the question.
But it's interesting to note that almost
anything you can do with object-oriented
programming and state on prototypes using
this dot, you could also do with closures.
I could do a whole other
class on that one.
But, the reality is they're
actually equivalent.
So let's jump back to our
problem at hand here.
I've defined a handler.
>> Speaker 2: We were talking
about complete if it makes sense.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, just we actually
had a corollary of this earlier when
we were talking about Timeout.
Time out, somebody brought up hey,
what about on airing?
Or what about airing?
Well, time out's don't air, right?
They never air, they never fail, right?
Do events, do DOM events ever complete?
>> Speaker 2: Do dom events or DOM?
One thing I was thinking of
is that we could subscribe
to the dom node removed and then have
a complete on that for the element?
>> Jafar Husain: So you're saying so
complete when the DOM element is removed?
>> Speaker 2: Sure.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, that's legitimate.
Sure, of course the dom element could be
then added back into the scene, right?
>> Speaker 2: Sure.
>> Jafar Husain: So maybe it's
not super safe to complete just
because the dom elements been moved.
Somebody might just be moving it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I'm just gonna submit to you that well
some event streams don't end, right?
Just like all the natural
numbers don't end, right?
Doesn't mean that we're, that's a problem.
It's interesting to note
that because of laziness,
we can deal with infinite streams of data.
In fact, it's actually gonna be very
common that we deal with infinite streams
of data and one of the most common sources
of infinite streams of data, dom events.
Think about users.
They can always click the button again.
They can always move the mouse again.
So, there's always the possibility
that we're gonna get another event.
So, I think we're actually done.
We don't, we're never gonna
get an error from a DOM event.
Well, there's a little more
nuance conversation around that.
Some dom events we can interpret
specific DOM events as errors.
But I think for the purposes,
simple example were done.
And so we got from event here.
So we've got an example
of a hard observable, so
why is this a hard observable?
Even though it looks the same,
really structurally it's timeout.
What makes this hot vs this?
>> Speaker 2: You can miss
events if subscribe later?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, it's because
frankly all we're doing is we're adapting
an underlying data source that
happens to be hot into an observable.
And therefore,
the observable itself is gonna be hot.
Right, all we have done just hooking
up to what's truly a hot data source,
the event stream.
But when it's set time out because we
delayed doing the work until subscribe
was called.
We made sure that every
single time you subscribe,
you're always gonna get a result, cuz we
kick off a timer just for you, right?
We can't do that with a DOM event,
what would that even mean?
So this is an example of a hot and
a cold observable right here.
And we've seen that there's really
not much to observables, right?
You do the work to set
up the subscriptions so
that the observer gets data.
And then when they call unsubscribe,
you do the work to make sure they don't
get called anymore, and that's about it.